Add robustness section (#52)
KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Guide: chapters/robustness.md

# Robustness

## What does robustness mean

When a Vulkan application tries to access (load, store, or perform an atomic on) memory it doesn't have access to, the implementation must react somehow. In the case where there is no robustness, it is undefined behavior and the implementation is even allowed to terminate the program. If robustness is enabled for the type of memory accessed, then the implementation must behave a certain way as defined by the spec.

![robustness_flow.png](../images/robustness_flow.png)

## When to use

The nature of some Vulkan applications requires the ability run shader code that cannot be guaranteed to avoid bad memory accesses. Robustness is needed for these applications.

**Please note** that turning on robustness may incur a runtime performance cost. Application writers should carefully consider the implications of enabling robustness.

## What Vulkan provides in core

> All Vulkan implementations are required to support the `robustBufferAccess` feature. The [spec describes what is considered out-of-bounds](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess) and also how it should be handled. Implementations are given some amount of flexibility for `robustBufferAccess`. An example would be accessing a `vec4(x,y,z,w)` where the `w` value is out-of-bounds as the spec allows the implementation to decide if the `x`, `y`, and `z` are also considered out-of-bounds or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Vulkan implementations are required to support the `robustBufferAccess` feature. The [spec describes what is considered out-of-bounds](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess) and also how it should be handled. Implementations are given some amount of flexibility in determining which values are considered out of bounds for `robustBufferAccess`. An example would be accessing a `vec4(x,y,z,w)` where the `w` value is out-of-bounds as the spec allows the implementation to decide if the `x`, `y`, and `z` components are also treated as being out-of-bounds.
```

If dealing with the update after bind functionality found in `VK_EXT_descriptor_indexing` (which is core as of Vulkan 1.2) it is important to be aware of the [robustBufferAccessUpdateAfterBind](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#limits-robustBufferAccessUpdateAfterBind) which indicates if an implementation can support both `robustBufferAccess` and the ability to update the descriptor after binding it.

The `robustBufferAccess` feature has some limitations as it only covers buffers and not images. It also allows out-of-bounds writes and atomics to modify the data of the buffer being accessed. For applications looking for a stronger form of robustness, there is [VK_EXT_robustness2](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/man/html/VK_EXT_robustness2.html).

> When images are out-of-bounds core Vulkan [provides the guarantee](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#textures-output-coordinate-validation) that stores and atomics have no effect on the memory being accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When image accesses are out-of-bounds core Vulkan [provides the guarantee](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#textures-output-coordinate-validation) that stores and atomics have no effect on the memory being accessed.
```

The `robustImageAccess` feature provides no guarantees about the values returned for access to an invalid LOD, it is still undefined behavior.

## VK_EXT_robustness2

Some applications, such as those being ported from other APIs such as D3D12, require stricter guarantees than `robustBufferAccess` and `robustImageAccess` provide. The [VK_EXT_robustness2](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/man/html/VK_EXT_robustness2.html) extension adds this by exposing 3 new robustness features, described in the following sections. For some implementations these extra guarantees can come at a performance cost. Applications that don't need the extra robustness are recommended to use `robustBufferAccess` and/or `robustImageAccess` instead where possible.

### robustBufferAccess2

The [robustBufferAccess2](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess2) feature can be seen as a superset of `robustBufferAccess`.

> With the feature enabled, it prevents all out-of-bounds writes and atomic from modifying any memory backing buffers. The `robustBufferAccess2` feature also enforces the values that must be returned for the various types of buffers when accessed out-of-bounds as [described in the spec](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the feature enabled, it prevents all out-of-bounds writes and atomics from modifying any memory backing buffers. The `robustBufferAccess2` feature also enforces the values that must be returned for the various types of buffers when accessed out-of-bounds as [described in the spec](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess).
```

> With the feature enabled, it prevents all out-of-bounds writes and atomic from modifying any memory backing buffers. The `robustBufferAccess2` feature also enforces the values that must be returned for the various types of buffers when accessed out-of-bounds as [described in the spec](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the feature enabled, it prevents all out-of-bounds writes and atomic from modifying any memory backing buffers. The `robustBufferAccess2` feature also mandates the values that must be returned when buffers are accessed out-of-bounds and removes some of the implementation flexibility around bounds-checking, as [described in the spec](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess).
```

> With the feature enabled, it prevents all out-of-bounds writes and atomic from modifying any memory backing buffers. The `robustBufferAccess2` feature also mandates the values that must be returned when buffers are accessed out-of-bounds and removes some of the implementation flexibility around bounds-checking, as [described in the spec](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess).

Author: ```suggestion
With the feature enabled, it prevents all out-of-bounds writes and atomics from modifying any memory backing buffers. The `robustBufferAccess2` feature also mandates the values that must be returned when buffers are accessed out-of-bounds and removes some of the implementation flexibility around bounds-checking, as [described in the spec](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-robustBufferAccess).
```
